---
layout: post
title: SoC vs SiP
categories: embedded
---

## SoC

A **system on a chip** or **system on chip** (**SoC** or **SOC**) is an integrated circuit (IC) that integrates all components of a computer or other electronic system into a single chip.
It may contain digital, analog, mixed-signal, and often radio-frequency functions - all on a single chip substrate.
SoCs are very common in the mobile electronics market because of their low power consumption.[1] A typical application is in the area of embedded systems.

## SiP

A **system in package (SiP)** or **system-in-a-package** is a number of integrated circuits enclosed in a single module (package).
The SiP performs all or most of the functions of an electronic system, and is typically used inside a mobile phone, digital music player, etc.
Dies containing integrated circuits may be stacked vertically on a substrate. They are internally connected by fine wires that are bonded to the package.
Alternatively, with a flip chip technology, solder bumps are used to join stacked chips together.

SiP dies can be stacked vertically or tiled horizontally, unlike slightly less dense multi-chip modules, which place dies horizontally on a carrier.
SiP connects the dies with standard off-chip wire bonds or solder bumps, unlike slightly denser three-dimensional integrated circuits which connect stacked silicon dies with conductors running through the die.

## Difference

A **System on Chip (SOC)** is a single chip that integrates multiple functionalities that are typically needed for a system into the single chip itself.
This could include one or more processor cores (single/dual/quad/octa cores), memory subsystems (DDR controllers), IO subsystems (PCIE, SATA, USB etc) and other similar functional logic/IP - all manufactured as a single IC device.

A **System-in-Package (SiP)** is a further level of integration where multiple dice are integrated inside a single package.
Traditionally you would have needed multiple specialized IC devices to be assembled and connected on a PCB while that level of connectivity is now integrated into the package itself. Several packaging techniques are used to connect multiple dies together - horizontally and vertically (2D and 3D).

**SoC** is more common design trend in the last 10+ years in the era of smartphone and mobile computing evolution.
**SiP** is going to further allow more integrations.

**SoC** has a single silicon die and typically has a single manufacturing process (like the 45nm, 28nm and so on).
All the sub-systems - CPU, Memory, Peripheral, IOs - are built on the same process.
This die is then put into a package.

In case of **SiP**, the subsystems are individual dies and they can be manufactured independently.
The CPU may be in 28nm, Memory in 14nm, Peripherals in 180nm.
They are assembled inside the package by various techniques - vertical stacking, horizontal stacking. 

## Reference

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_on_a_chip
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_in_package
- https://www.quora.com/Semiconductors-What-is-the-difference-between-SoC-System-on-chip-and-SiP-System-on-Package
